[Music]
so how long can you hold your breath
underwater I'll bet not as long as Alex
Segura Vendrell from Spain a
professional free diver he managed to
hold his breath for 24 minutes and four
seconds and I just can't wrap my head
around this fact but it got me to
wondering could people live underwater
come to think of it living underwater
would have loads of advantages for
example hurricanes and tsunamis wouldn't
be dangerous anymore in a deep water
house you wouldn't even feel the raging
waves people wouldn't need aquariums
anymore
what with fish swimming around
everywhere of you wouldn't need a
swimming pool if you decided to throw a
pool party there would be more space for
guests and you'd be able to play
hide-and-seek among the corals now on a
more serious note people unfortunately
aren't designed for living underwater
remember how your fingers get wrinkled
when you spend too much time in the
water now imagine your whole body
looking like that you plus your muscles
are built to help you move on land
that's why if you spend all your time
underwater they would atrophy and you'd
become incredibly weak what I mean is
that if people had to spend their lives
in the water
they'd have to evolve and turn into a
completely different species and if you
think growing gills would be enough
think again let's be honest your limbs
aren't the most effective implements
when it comes to swimming that's why
you'd also have to grow fins you don't
have enough body hair or body fat to
stay in the water for a long time and
not get hypothermia so you'd probably
need scales plus if you decide to live
in a lake or a river you wouldn't be
able to see clearly because the water
wouldn't be that transparent but even if
you chose the ocean as your new home
you'd have the same problem yes
closer to the ocean surface the water is
much clearer than in any lake and your
gills would supply you with oxygen which
would prevent you from blacking out as
you move deeper but at a depth of 650
feet it would already be too dark for
you to see anything and don't forget
about the water pressure so let's say
you decide to avoid these problems
altogether and settle in the shallows
where you wouldn't need any pressurized
air space but then how would you
communicate with those around you your
ears and eyes have been developing for
thousands of years to work in the air
that's why underwater communication
would be a huge challenge you'll be able
to talk if you save some air in your
lungs but sooner or later you'd run out
of any way to make your vocal cords
vibrate producing sound electronics
wouldn't work underwater which you
probably know if you've ever dropped
your smartphone in the toilet
I have that means you'd have to
communicate with the help of hand
signals
but I guess darkness along with murky
water would make communication difficult
also have you ever tried to munch on a
hot dog at the bottom of a river yeah
tell me about it in the comments then
you know that eating underwater would be
one of the most challenging things and
finally the biggest organ of your body
meaning your skin would have to go
through the toughest trial returning to
those wrinkled fingers this effect is
caused by tiny bubbles of water they get
trapped between the two layers of your
skin and the most shocking thing is that
it doesn't happen because your body
absorbs liquid on the contrary it's a
particular way your skin changes to be
able to grip stuff when it's wet in
other words if your fingers didn't get
pruning they'd be too slippery for you
to hold on to anything
now this coping method sounds cool but
in fact it isn't scientists still don't
understand the reasons completely but
when you spend too much time in the
water your skin starts to break down
that means developing wounds and
infections until eventually it falls off
completely then they call you Lefty so
if you lived underwater all the time
you'd need to replace your good old skin
with something completely different
however scientists don't deny that one
day genetics might go as far as to
modify humans so that they're able to
live underwater write down in the
comments below which modification you'd
be looking forward to if you had to live
underwater
definitely gills but wait what if people
didn't have to change what if they just
adapted to the current circumstances
nowadays the idea of the colonization of
Mars comes up more and more often
meanwhile people forget that the ocean
is much closer and even more livable and
since the surface of our planet is 71%
water and oceans hold more than 96% of
all of this water why not make it a new
home for future generations of course
people would have to deal with a number
of serious challenges like I mentioned
before underwater cities and colonies
wouldn't be built deeper than 1,000 feet
any deeper than that and the structures
along with their inhabitants would
collapse under the incredible pressure
see for yourself if you went out of the
1,000 foot depth underwater city without
some kind of protection like an
atmospheric diving suit you'd be
affected by the pressure of 30
atmospheres that means that the pressure
you'd feel would be 30 times stronger
than that on land at sea level
granted humans are tough creatures and
can withstand the pressure of 71
atmospheres but only for a short time
and not without bad things happening to
our bodies yes the ocean would
definitely have a crush on you anyway
even at the depth of 1,000 feet the
walls of the buildings in an underwater
city would have to be super thick and
massive only this way would they manage
to withstand the water pressure and
protect the people inside the colonies
would also have to be pressurized if
they weren't who knows how it would
influence their bodies plus people
wouldn't only have to solve the problem
of oxygen supply but also figure out how
to maintain the correct ratio of various
air components that's why there would be
a lot of plants in underwater cities and
special artificial light would help
those plants produce oxygen one of the
main problems in underwater colonies
would be an infection if someone got
sick in such an enclosed space the virus
would spread very fast
that's why cities would be equipped with
huge machines filtering cleaning and
disinfecting the air inside but at least
underwater colonies wouldn't suffer from
a lack of food
living on the ocean floor you'd get
access to all the seafood you can find
there and that's a lot people would eat
fresh fish shellfish and edible kinds of
seaweed other traditional foods like
greens vegetables or fruit as well as
fresh water would be transported to
underwater cities through tunnels
connected with the surface on the other
hand the inhabitants of ocean colonies
would most likely learn new ways of
farming they probably start to grow salt
tolerant crops for example some plants
that grow in salty soil absorb fresh
water by making themselves saltier than
their surroundings and such plants bring
more harvest per acre than for example
sunflowers or people could set up farms
raising shrimp and fish which are
perfect sources of protein
thanks to saltwater farming people would
use less fresh water no droughts would
affect the harvest plus it would be
possible to grow special plants for
making ecologically friendly fuel such
as biodiesel more cheaply there would be
a lot of scientists living in underwater
colonies it would help them to get a
better understanding of the processes
going on in the ocean also they'd be
researching the ocean floor looking for
new yet undiscovered resources the
metals and minerals they might find
could be used later in the construction
of new underwater colonies and now I
have some good news the technology to
make underwater colonies possible
already exists these colonies can easily
support up to 100 people and scientists
are working on ways to make this number
bigger the main problem so far are
creating working evacuation routes
figuring out how to get enough air and
how to make the environment humid enough
oh the irony hey if you learn something
new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the bright side of life
[Music]